- Current gen increasingly require dual income and longer loan tenure just to get a flat that is smaller. Affordability has got worse.
- Current wait time for BTO flats can be 5 to 7 years (Time taken to win BTO lottery + long construction time) which is definitely disruptive for a couple's family plan.
- Household income used to be mostly from sole breadwinner.
- Public housing flats also used to be bigger.
- Resale flats are the alternative to getting BTO flats but resale flats are significiantly more expensive. Price has gone up for over 30 continuous months with no effective intervention from those in charge.
- The median Singaporean is almost 42 years old. Incomes tend to increase with age from the ages 24-55. Our median age is a lot higher than the age of the median first home buyer and thus the median Singaporean tax filer is going to report more income than the median homebuyer. This exaggerates affordability
"But the median household income has risen 10 times too, from S$900 in 1980 to S$9,000 today. So BTO flat prices have in fact moved in tandem with incomes," said Mr Wong.
"In Tandem"
"MeDiAn iNcoMe"
"The vast majority of our first-time homebuyers today service their housing loans through their CPF (Central Provident Fund) contributions, with very little or even no out-of-pocket cash"
$900 for 1 pax in 1980 vs $9000 for 2 pax in 2023 is not the same. I
$9000 household income.... x3.32 maybe
1 MILLION DOLLAR BTO
1980, households mostly single income and still can raise a family.
1980: New 4-room flat $40,000 and household income $900. 1981 DPM salary: $14,250 per month [source] = ~$213,000 per year on a 15-month package.
2023, households mostly dual income and yet struggling.
2023: New non-mature 4-room flat $350,000 and household income $9000. 2023 minister salary (before the ongoing review): $1,100,000 per year [source].
4 room HDB - From 1990 to 2022 Increase 6.4 x times
According to this schmuck, he's justifying all this shit by saying median household income is 9k. In other words, f those below that right?
Addendum: Am single waiting to hit 35. Used to be against the idea of queueing for 2rm BTO since there are those with more immediate needs than me (eg. low-income families and singles from dysfunctional ones) who require subsidised housing more than I do. But with the way the resale market is going, I'm not sure I can afford to continue down this trajectory.
Affordable when you service your loan for the rest of your life
Agree. Size of 3 room flats for eg, really obvious. 4 room bto now smaller than 3 room built in 1980s.
agreed on all fronts
Also he is using a 'median' household income. ie: the 50th percentile.
Also, seems like 90% of the ones raging are people who are barely in the process of owning a HDB flat or aren't even thinking of it yet but reacting to headlines like it's the end of the world.
always spinning/putting things in a 'well technically' light, when they know damn well what we mean
And also the rental market. People who can't afford resale and can't get BTO, have to rent to stay together. Also those who are waiting for BTO or in between downgrading from private to HDB. The increase in rental prices affects many people, not just foreigners.
And he conveniently missed out the fact that people are getting married and/or moving out from their family home later, therefore contributing to higher household income in general (iirc it was noted in a LKYSPP or IPSOS study). Additionally, younger people tend to have lower income too.
And people still want this cunt as the PM.
and some F&B is still putting up recruitment poster offering $1800 for full time position...
Anw you have your opinion I have mine we just need to agree to disagree on this.
Are you having a laugh bud?
As for resale, they completely neglated the fact that the demand before COVID was low. So much so that the WP MPs took the stand to raise concern on the dropping of property value.
As others have rightly pointed out, the real issues here are resale and rent prices which are really taking a toll on Singaporeans
As the old man once said, “Sinkies be daft, yo”
As with any other things, one has to buy within their capacity. It is unreasonable that if the market decided that you only worth $2,000 a month and you demand a flat in Bishan. This is oxymoron. If you think your pay is too low, consider speaking with your employer and SkillsFuture. Singapore has a robust job market that, as long as you work hard, your salary wouldn't be too shabby.
Assuming that even if BTO flats truly remained affordable, the long term trend is that its getting less affordable.
Basically, PAP think you are all stupid like your parents when they come out with such dialogues. It's up to you if you have the intelligence to find out their bullshite and vote some of these arrogant people out.
Boss still not get retired.
bro his seniors in his political party do it all the time. so not his fault that he is just picking up the ropes ain't it?
BTO do not cost arm and leg. There are a wide variety of options to of BTO flat are different price level. Everyone should make sound financial decision when they bid for a particular project. The price is transparent and upfront upon application. Everyone can make decision for themselves.
BTO sets you free
Btw, median income earning family effectively means half of the dual-income families in the entire population are priced out of a BTO. This is the flip side of what the median being able to afford a BTO means, ie that everyone below the median (50% of population) are unable to afford.
But this "tail end" is significant to the argument whether or not inequality is shrinking. If we exclude the tiny super wealthy who don't earn income from labour, then its a very skewed picture.
by definition those who can't afford wouldn't have gotten a HDB and pay with the 25%, they would have stayed out of this statistic altogether. so smoke screen actually.
By the time you manage to finally get a BTO you'd probably be in your 40s.
careers
cherry picking to compare
Contrast this with US where it is common that one has to drive 30mins to get to nearest Costco, I would say Singaporeans are very well taken care off.
copium
Correct me if I am worng, but the way government calculates the average household median income has also to do with the total number of people actually working and contributing to the income.
CPF contributions included in income figures but a significant chunk of it cannot be touched for housing, and you are forced to pay it back to yourself. Out of pocket spending is still significant.
definition of tone deafness…. pointless being affordable when u cant even get em in time…
Did I suggested it to be cheap? I’m suggesting it to be not so expensive.
Did you expect him to do otherwise and be honest?
Do it.
DPM Wong, do you take us for idiots???
Either build faster BTO or maintain resales price.
Even bto has climbed at a scary pace
Even if he's right and HDBs are as affordable as they were in 1980 (I'll even ignore the resale market to be really charitable to his point), just think of how demented that is. Almost every other living expense has gotten cheaper relative to median income i.e. people have, in general, gotten richer in real terms over the last 40+ years. The fact that housing expenditure has not gotten cheaper is a policy failure, especially when housing costs are usually the single largest expense for a household.
excellent catch there. fucking lawrence pulled a hell of a sleight of hand trick using household income and cherry picking to compare to a time when many households were single income!! OMG really damn despicable of him
Eyes wide and tell lies
Facebook links are not allowed on this subreddit due to doxxing concerns. Please amend your submission to remove the link and write in to modmail for it to be manually approved again. Alternatively, you may wish to resubmit the post without the link.
Fact is we need CPF component to boost the claim that housing is affordable. Is it really affordable if it affects retirement adequacy in the long run?
Far be it for me to expect to influence you, but why not try out Lemmy?
Far be it for me to expect to influence you, but why not try out Lemmy?
Feels like we are paddling like mad, just to stay ‘comparable’ to the earlier generation.
Finally, r/sg complain about waiting time. Resale has almost no waiting time and the government has tried to fix the BTO waiting time.
First, they complain that public housing is unaffordable. The evidence and proved that BTO remains affordable and burden hasn't increase. r/sg can't dispute this.
For majority of young couples (which is r/sg demographic), all they need to do is to find a partner and put in the $10 ballot. They will realize the housing market is not as bad as what the community here believed to be.
fuk u unnerstan
Further, as many have pointed out, household in the past is 1 breadwinner, now it takes 2. So technically the cost in relation to income has became twice as expensive. I mean my grandma who has never worked a day in her life still sits at home, and is testament to my grandfather being the sole breadwinner.
Gaslight is gaslight.
Gg. Wonder who in the civil service trying to sabo this guy.
Given the size of flat built nowadays (few or little 5rm), I think the concept of multi-generation living with parents will be a stretch for many folks
Going by your source, minister salary is $1,100,000. What your sources/numbers show is that as a multiple of income, a Minister's salary has about halved.
good joke for labour day. deluded af
Good luck sir
Good observation. They could look at bottom quarter and tell a story. How many can buy with all the other cost of upkeep too
Granted that's true, but what is also true, things are nicer now, we have Netflix and air- conditioned everywhere. Part of the reason things were cheap was because they were not as nice as a developing country, back then expats came here on a hardship basis. If we start implementing knee jerk policies and slamming the doors on foreigners, Mncs will leave along with our nice things and that is not the way we want to make our housing cheap, a large part of this inflation story is a COVID driven and globally felt episode, it will go away in a few years, if we over correct however, that will set a precedent that echos for a long time. The most significant factor that makes Singapore awesome is our unity and trust in each other, COVID has shown that, we wore masks, stuck to lock downs and vaccinated like world champions, we were the responsible community whose individuals cared for each other the envy of world leaders everywhere. I know we are all just frustrated that our life plans have gone awry and we are trying to put a face to the reason but let's cool off and not say or upvote things we don't deeply mean (I am referring to the Desmond monitor lizard reply above), even if this is the interweb and nobody knows that I am tan ah kow or just because his posts represents my raw emotion and not my logical rationale mind. Let's rally behind the fact that deep down we are still the mask wearing, lock down adhering, vaccination 1 2 + booster, rock steady Singaporeans.
Groundhog month!
haha. nice opening labor day message with a joke..
HDB flats also becoming smaller and smaller. I've not done the math but I doubt median income kept pace with median BTO price per square foot.
He is not wrong.. His income have risen now that he is dpm
He is still saying the truth thou. People are still able to buy BTO. But he is avoiding the resale thingy altogether
He must be hallucinating
He will fucking start his comparison to other countries and yabber about gender equality bla bla. Diverting the topic.
Here’s another idea, make Elon musk, Jeff Bezos, bill gates Singaporeans. Suddenly, even $1mil resale is affordable and in line with median income
He's been quite disappointing ever since he's been announced as the next PM. Before that, I always thought he was a breath of fresh air for his work in the MMTF.
He's disregarding these
He's within his rights for Spez to spaz, but with Relay for Reddit about to be nixed I'm not going to be here for it
Hey, today is labor day, not April fools day. Income increase on average is minimal, after the weak backdrop of economic growth last year.
High number of listed private property developers. Low number of land release. This drives up the land cost for developers through competition. To earn profit from these developments, they need to price high. To upgrade, HDB sellers will need to sell high to afford the private properties. Land cost for BTOs are valuated according to the nearby resale prices and bto prices are priced using those as a reference as well. End up all property prices are high, due to the high land costs for private properties.
His own income?
His speech assumes a $9,000 household income. Sure...
His statement implies that with regard to housing, Singaporeans are no more prosperous than they were 40 years ago. For a government who's only selling point is supposedly their economic management, this is quite damning. And no, before some IB comes in and compares us to HK or NY or whatever, you can pre-emptively fuck right off. For how much Singaporeans sacrifice in terms of political freedoms, the grand bargain was economic prosperity in return. This government has failed to keep up its end of the deal.
housing supply has not been chronically undersupply. Just right before COVID, the WP MPs even stood up to warn the government about the danger of oversupply of flats, considering the older flats will be vacate when their owner has passed on.
How do you explain BTOs starting at half a million for a 3/4 room flat? That’s quite insane
How inconvenient can HDB flat be? Unlike private condos and landed property, thHDB adopted the TOD, EOD and AOD development approach (Transit, Eduction and Amenities Oriented Development). All HDB projects, new, old, mature or non-mature will be well connected by public transport system. Every HDB projects will also have primary and secondary school coverage. And will have neighborhood food court, supermarket and shops within 5 mins walking distance.
How many actually HDB owners actually benefitted from the million sales? How many genuine homeseekers are actually negatively impacted by the million dollar sales figures? No much I would say.
How many local couples are uni grads? really a small minority in this so called 1st world country. IMNW, only 20% of locals per year will have a space for them at a local uni.
how stupid do they think we are?
However, the situation today is different. Both husband and wife are essentially compelled to work, in order for their household to afford a BTO unit based off both individuals’ earnings.
I don't have many people around me whose disposable income has risen 10x since 1980. 20 years is too far away a benchmark imo. I hope DPM also factors in inflation levels in last 10 years, giving us a broader picture of the real incomes of low and middle income earners.
I don't question that the median household income currently is $9,000.
I don't this kind of high-level study of HDB affordability is going to convince anybody except themselves.
I forgot as well there’s shrinkflation. Last time 4 and 5 room flats how large? Now what size?
I googled these facts:
I guess the out of touch that these guys exhibit is rearing it's ugly head once more.
I had an intern who just graduated and her fiancé in last year of 4 year course. They already have applied for 4 room BTO. Some early couples model citizens
I have friends in the mid-late 20s who have been unable to get their BTOs, but are priced out of the resale market with their meagre fresh grad salaries. It’s really stressful for them, the uncertainty, and they are unable to proceed with any meaningful plans for marriage / family planning.
I hear undergraduates are already thinking of applying BTO at the age of 22 because of the long BTO wait time. It’s ridiculous when you are so young and not ready for marriage.
I still don’t get how they even can get a housing loan without income yet. Nonetheless this is a societal flaw that might get worse in the future.
I stopped reading once I saw this:
I think he's not wrong to show that among the majority, up to 25% of income goes to housing. However, we should consider the other basic expenditures (food, utilities). Perhaps the more pertinent question would be: compared to 1980, how much money does the Singaporean have left over, after paying for housing, food, utilities and other necessities? My suspicion is that it had dropped since 1980, and it is concerning because it reflects the average Singaporean's ability to save for retirement and emergencies.
I think only his income
I think theres alot of truth in this. The whole issue is artificially constricted supply.
I think r/sg is in a confusion and aren't sure what they are complaining about anymore..
I would be more than happy if we are finally able to get this data from IRAS, but i don't think it's represented by any of our data sets.
I would even say that there are mechanisms that inflate our median income figure. Our median household income is about 9k SGD. There are a number of problems with abusing this figure to extrapolate affordability.
I would honestly rather have CCS than LW.
I’m not saying it’s hidden, I’m saying it shouldn’t cost an arm and leg regardless of location. $400-500k for just 3/4 room is a lot
I’m starting to shift from indifferent to dislike
If bill Gates walks into a bar everyone on average is a billionaire
If plenty of rich foreigners become Singaporeans and their relatives work in their family office and have high salary, average Singaporeans income increases
If the argument is we should be median income of couples who are newly married, then we must also use 1980s data of that same case, unfortunately don't have that information.
-If this number is calculated from tax returns, it is worth mentioning that according to HSK, about half of working age Singaporeans don't pay income tax either because they earn less than the floor and because a large numbers of people work informally and don't file a tax return. This is a figure completely incompatible with our median Household income being truly 9k.
If we all agree that flat shouldn't be an investment tool, shouldn't the older cheaper flat be appealing to those who can't wait?
If you're below 30, single, and below median income, in their eyes, you don't need to rent or a place of your own.
I'm always confused, one minute it's resale prices too high but BTO ok, then the next is BTO prices too high because mature estate prices are high. Like wtf are people expecting? Want to live in central area next to MRT, of course you get charged a bit higher than if you are living in Woodlands.
I'm glad that you understood some history on where BTO system came from. Did you even read up on the consequence of having a huge backlog of unsold flats?
I'm guessing more household members are contributing to that household income in 2022 compared to 1990 too, so that 4.4x increase is probably padded by that.
I'm not surprised if he comes out next week and say that 'GST has rised in tandem with income'
I'm sure they believe it. The alternative is having to deal with the problem, and which is easier?
Imagine if someone opens a restaurant that advertised selling value chicken rice for only $2 but he only sells 10 plates of them and the rest of the chicken rice he sells for $8.
In a recent BTO launch, a 4room BTO is only 330k. It is even cheaper after grant at around 250k and can be comfortably afford by a young couple with a combined income of 8000 per month.
In fact, at first, they were actually planning for an adoption once i was born and transferred to my aunt but i'm not sure why they cancelled that plan.
In order words, quality of life decreased despite the nation’s progress
In other words, red herrings, red herrings everywhere.
In tandem with his income, he means?
In tandem?? With whose income ???
In the 80s, the wife/mother could choose whether to work. If so, the median household income back then likely comprised a large proportion of single-income families. A significant percentage of households then could thus afford a BTO unit based off a single individual’s earnings.
Increase in tandem with dual income. That means no one can be at home to take care of baby
Interesting username
Is he having a laugh or something?
Is it me or does his tone also sound quite condescending - as though we missed the obvious and have been too blinded to see the obvious ‘truth’
Is this a late April fools joke that I am missing here?
Is this an out of season april fools joke?
Is this based on Singapore's per capita income? Because it's not an honest assessment of things. Those working in MNCs, government, and preferred industries might see their income raising with inflation, thus pulling the PCI up. But since we do not have basic income requirement the less offs are not seeing any salary review in this upward spiral of inflation.
It all went downhill when stop at 2 was created. Our future offsprings are being sacrificed for the sake of future new citizens n their kids. What a great future to save for right
It is weird to hear him snuck in "Majulah PAP" in a NTUC may day speech. I thought NTUC is supposed to be a non political organisation?
It just seems if you point out the obvious, everyone immediately downvotes you lmao. Want to live in prime areas but don't want to pay the cost as if you are entitled to live there is always one of my pet peeves lmao.
It really depends on how broad (% of population) and deep (% of income as cap gains) this segment is. I haven't done enough in dept study to determine this.
It's a spiral. The below are just a unproven guess.
It's apparent that they're seeing the data they want to use.
It's apparent that they're seeing the data they want to use.
it's based upon median income which is the 50th percentile household income. If your argument is that the wage gap is increasing, the data shows that it's shrinking (Gini Income has shrunk https://www.singstat.gov.sg/-/media/files/news/press09022023.ashx#:~:text=The%20Gini%20coefficient%205%20based,fell%20from%200.437%20to%200.378.
It's this again
It's totally disingenuous of DPM Wong to compare median household incomes from 1980 to present day, without mentioning that it only used to take a Single income to hit median HH income in the 80s, while it takes Dual income (or more) today to hit the median HH income.
It's within his rights for Spez to spaz, but with Relay for Reddit about to be nixed I'm not going to be here for it
Just need a small space
Just pulled a "Everything's fine~ No worries~"
Kepala otak kau
Last time mainly 1 income, now mainly 2 income per household.
Lawrence telling us he don’t understand workers during a day for workers.
Let's not forget the debt from student loans and wedding celebrations.
Like 10% max increase of purchase price per resale. But need to stay for 5/10year (something like mop/top) then can sell again.
LKY sought education for the masses and in the span of 50 years we grew to become educated and intelligent. Yet the ruling party still takes the modern population for a fool, quoting similarities to the 80s by ratio.
Lmfao
LOL this is so tone deaf omg
Lol why do you think they have an expedited need to import and convert high income foreigners? Cos nothing else to pad their kpi with for their bonuses.
LW keeps talking about supporting Poly & ITE grads.... after so many years, PAP is still sticking to a majority of our people having this as their qualification. lower qualification means lower starting pay & pay scale.
LW probably just wants to kick the can down the road, or maybe they want to follow the US Republican playbook of fucking up the country so when the opposition takes over, they can blame the opposition for all the problems that the PAP created.
Making a claim without supporting data? That's the level of our politician nowadays.. NATO
Many of them are just reacting to headlines without much knowledge about the system and how the system works. The headline numbers are as meaningless as the GDP numbers if it doesn't translate to actual impact on individual.
Many years ago BTO has already decoupled itself from the resale market and make sure it is price within the affordability for the majority of Singaporeans. There are also grants in place to help the bottom 50% to afford a flat comfortably.
Mature estate BTO forms a smaller percentage relative to total BTO offering. Majority of BTO flats offered are from non-mature estate with affordable price for majority of Singaporeans.
Mature estate, right next to MRT, in central area. What the fuck are you expecting? 100K?
Maybe after reading the headline you play the Seinfeld theme
Maybe I’m second guessing if I should even have family and kids.
Maybe none of them have the will to face up to the ugly truth, so when any "statistics" supporting a rosy view come up they cling on to it and close their eyes to anything else because if it's not true that means there's a lot of shit they have to be responsible for and it's much easier to just believe everything is great, their salaries are well-earned, and the praises from the yes-men around them are genuine.
Median Singaporean Household Income Has Risen to $10,099 in 2022.
Minister salary has rise for sure. These guys are high on some Singaporean crack
MND has a “hidden matrix” of “passed down” money from parents to help their children with downpay and Reno.. this is hidden.. thts y they come up with the $9000 combined salary.. it’s factored in when they run their multiple cost simulation b4 announcement.. it’s politics at its basics.. cannot believe.. juz know tht they need every1 to carry on pumping into CPF so tht they can invest..
mobile website
mod guidelines
More like pappies are in deep trouble, dishonourable son can screw his brother up but can't screw the nut in properly on 4G succession. SG will trundle along just fine without them.
More taxes collected. Nation's reserve increased through more expensive land sales. More monies collected from bto sales. 4D chess indeed.
Most of the resale buyers do not really have a choice as they are priced out of the private market and only alternatives are resale. Those that are priced out of resale are then forced to rent, forcing rent prices up.
My default position is this, I assume it is an indicator that works to show our wage inequality is shrinking, but I can't use it to compare with other countries that use this indicator but count income from cap gains.
My mother was a housewife who had never worked for the first 20 years of marriage just to take care of me and my siblings of 5 and my father would have to take care all of us. It took her until the late 2000s, where she can finally work again (before that, it was in the early 80s but it was short lived.) Despite all the problems, my parents still manage to get through until we all grown up and got into divorce.
My name is Desmond Monitor Leezard. I'm 46 years old. My house is in the central section of Singapore, where all the villas are, and I am married with 3 children. I work as an employee for the PAP monitoring department store, and I get home every day by 5pm at the latest. I don't smoke, but I occasionally drink. I'm in bed by 11PM, and make sure I get eight hours of uninterrupted rest, no matter what. After serving a warm glass of Shut the Fuck Up Pleb HDB Dweller and doing about twenty minutes of monitoring Singaporeans' deteriorating cost of living crisis before going to bed, I usually have no problems sleeping until morning. Just like a baby, I wake up without any fatigue or stress in the morning. I was told there were no issues at my last policy monitoring briefing. I'm trying to explain that I'm a person who wishes to live a very quiet life. I take care not to trouble myself with policy outcomes, like rising Total Fertility Rate (TFR) or ensuring Singaporeans will continue to wake up in their childhood bedrooms until they die, as that would cause me to lose sleep at night. That is how I deal with society, and I know that is what brings me happiness. Although, if I were to run for re-election I wouldn't lose to anyone because lol GRC #dealwithit
need to consider death by a thousand cuts also...everything up and if you look at it one by one of course individual items might be affordable, but take it as a whole the story might be different.
NewsBTO flats remain affordable, prices have risen in tandem with incomes: DPM Wong (channelnewsasia.com)
Next up, 1960 figures!
Nice stand-up comedy 🤣
No need to test our intelligence, the election results speak for themselves because we keep voting them in.
Nope. Pre-COVID the issue is the oversupply of HDB flat and depreciating value of resale flats.
Not everyone can buy a BTO though. Singles and “non-traditional” couples can’t buy a BTO until they’re 35 (and only a 2rm at that), and by the time that comes, it is highly likely that their incomes are just a hair over the limit for eligibility. And even if it ain’t, the queue for 2rm flats is stupidly long due to other singles vying for units, along with low-income families.
Not everyone can get the full grant, so assuming that is a given and it’ll be less than $400k eventually isn’t wise.
Not sure about price rising in tandem with income but for sure the flats are getting smaller.
Not sure if April fools or Labor Day
Now gender equality, women want to work. Why you want people to be housewife?
Now they use it as a measurement to deem BTO flat affordability.
Oh ya I meant mean.
Oh yes. And can we revert our cpf, gst, coe, foreigners, population and all our taxes to the 80s too?
Oh you sure income has risen?
Opportunity cost of 5-6 years of waiting/renting not priced in.
Or they shld come up with a tracking system to specifically targeting reseller. Maybe a reselling stamp duty. (2% tax per resell)
Or to put Lawrence's point in the most generous light, he is saying our lives have not improved since the past. Great success
Out of touch
Pappies just like to make it a race to the bottom, normalising ridiculous notions for the KPI
perhaps, but I can't have a default position which assumes this without evidence that gini doesn't represent the income equality data of singapore sufficiently to matter and have a logical understanding of the situation.
Please, we people earning below 14k/month can’t even get one
Plus in 1980 I would bet that most households were single income, now it's most certainly double income.
Precisely. The issue was never about BTO prices, but their long waiting times and the difficulty in getting one, which leads to and compounds the problem of a crazy resale market.
Quote wrong figure la bro
reddiquette
REDDIT and the ALIEN Logo are registered trademarks of reddit inc.
Reddit for Android
Reddit for iPhone
Reddit help center
reddit premium
Remains to be seen if the average singaporean can achieve the balance of liquidating a leasehold property with decreasing value over time with the ever increasing cost of living during retirement years.
Remember to vote for his party if you want them to continue to BANG you!!!
Remember, he was in MND.
Resales Price and BTO timeline is the white elephant here.
Rightly downvoted to oblivion
Sadly, idk the full story. I just know that they were planning to divorce right before i was born in 1999. The reason why my parents put on hold was because of me and my younger sister. They want to give us our best life during our childhood like they did with my older siblings. It took until around 2012 when they finally divorced. As to why it happened, let's just say that someone was cheated back in 1999 and again in 2009, but i feel like there's more to it.
SAY THE THING
Seems like Gini is more accurate when used in tax regimes that count capital gains tax. The ultra wealthy that earn income via capital gains are a small group but including them would give a more accurate picture. In Singapore, using income only from labour means you assume that the richest in the country are those in the top tax bracket, which is inaccurate. We all know the super wealthy isn't paying 20+% on the top part of their income. Those paying 20+% are upper middle class people. If we compare them to those in poverty then of course the picture is rosier.
Shit like this is why the masses are getting fed up with these pricks in their ivory towers. They seem literally incapable of empathizing and understanding the people.
Since there hasn't been improvement, only maintenance, then the salaries of ministers should be pegged at the same % as it was to the median salary in 1980.
Single income vs dual income and last time need to wait 7 years or not for bto. Also bto not even enough, so resale market price increase how much? And keep talking about median, are people buying btos earning median income or lower than that?
site rules
Slum Development Board.
So 4.4x times increase in median household income.
So as a society, we are told to study hard and work hard but in the end the end result is more people in the household joining the workforce and houses becoming smaller. Sometimes I wonder if all the progress is all an illusion. You earn more than your parents and your kids earn more than you but the purchasing power remains the same when it comes to the biggest purchase of your lives.
so basically, housing in singapore is only affordable if:
so how much percentage of the household is in the median income bracket? I think this is important to make it clear?
So not exactly in tandem DPM Wong
So that it fits his narrative? Someone else picked a different year and seems like the argument falls apart.
So the bottom half of taxpayers are going to live in tents and those who don't make enough to even be a taxpayer can go live under a bridge or something like that.
So we still use 25% of household income, same as 1980 and that's supposedly ok? We had more than 40 years to merely maintain the performance. The yardstick for success from the government seems really low.
So yeah, my siblings always ask this question how we survive the first 20 years.
So, exactly, what is the issue now?
some couples stay together because of the kids, not in spite of.
Something big is being left out here. That is, what is the mortage length now vs 80s example? & the compounding interest rate effect. I highly doubt people were needing 30 year loans then.
Sorry had to say that this was a Taylor Swift Reference
sorted by: 
Statistics don't lie, statisticians lie.
Still I don’t agree BTOs should cost an arm and leg even in mature estate before considering grants. But this is just my pov
stop gaslighting us
Stop letting people use HdB as a source of rental Income. Stop insane resale prices. If HdB is meant to be for every Singaporean to live in, keep it that way. Stop letting HDB be exploited for profit.
submitted 1 year ago by TheAlphaLion_com
Take whole sg median income cause whole sg buying bto isit?
Taking into reference if both is uni grad getting a 4-5k mthly income. But not forgetting about the rest of the popular with only a measly of <3k/mth
Talk cock sia
Talking about inflation, when is fuel price gonna go down? And last I heard we're importing Indonesian chickens to alleviate the supply crunch but I'm not seeing any dent in the price of chicken for the last half year.
Tell me the mean and the modal income band of SG households, and then I can better judge whether HDB flats are indeed still as affordable. This is literally O level math.
Thank you for appreciating this fact. That's exactly my point. If anyone who had spent a serious year or two in any other developed cities, they would have appreciate how smooth and oiled our HDB system is.
That is if it was affordable to begin with. Else it is just as unaffordable as before. Also, not everyone's income rised in tandem with BTO flat prices.
That was the plan all along
That’s assuming you want to stay in Jurong or some inconvenient location. It’s like saying staying in Ubin is cheap for crying out loud. Btw, I’m not disputing your data, in case you still don’t get it.
That’s it, they’ve completely lost my vote.
That’s quite sad ending in a way… May i know why did they get into divorce? It seems like they have pull through the hardest part together
That's before subsidy and is in mature estate. You can buy a new town (non-mature) BTO flat, which has shorter waiting time and higher grant.. your final cost will be less than 400k
That's what our Gaslight Wong is doing here
The "cooling measures" just lead to the prices going up even higher, lol.
The answer is not meaningful lah
The balance is disrupted by the sudden event of COVID-19. That's the fact.
The BTO is not design to "lag" demand, but to track the demand. Since BTO was introduce, every sales exercise resulted in a unsold balanced flats. Before COVID, HDB has a good amount of unsold flat for sale. Do you still remember the regular Sale of Balance Flat (SOBF) exercises that hardly move any dent on the unsold balance flats? The BTO system has worked well in tracking the demand of flats need and has been building slightly more than it necessary.
the calculus is for maximum extraction by design
The downvote is not a disagree button. Please help to upvote articles that you want to see more discussion on, and downvote those that you feel has little value on the sub.
The facts & figures are there, the smoke screen and delusion is heavily laid on.
the lost decade of families in singapore spent waiting is worth nothing haha
The lower income who can't afford can go stay wif their parents or don't get married. The gov doesn't really care that much as the poor don't contribute to their coffers. And the poor also don't have any power so they can't fight for their rights. So the only way out is either they get better paying jobs , or share a room with strangers.
The median monthly income from work for households in Singapore was S$2,296 in 1990
The message from them is clear. You play by their rules, get married, get children, you'll get a cheaper bto.
The salary cap should be raised too in the face of the rapid spike in property prices in the last few months or years? Now lower middle income people, which are those that you want to start families, can only live in old flats or million dollar Micky mouse condos. Even ECS can cost a million bucks
The scary thing is, what if they really believe it? That the complaints are coming from some too-free "champion grumbler" people, or a unlucky few, and that the actual situation is great and that these kinds of bad statistics are the real ground truth?
The typical household currently uses less than 25 per cent of their income to service their housing loan, like in 1980, says Deputy Prime Minister Lawrence Wong in his May Day speech.
The wait being shorter is still up for debate tbh but the higher grant is true so have to give you that.
Then, r/sg argued that public flat shouldn't be consider an investment tools and allow aggressive speculation and price appreciation. The government clarify that the value of HDB will go down to 0 at the end of the lease. r/sg can't dispute it
Then, r/sg says the issue is not with BTO price, but with resale price. And so, they have been shown the evidences that there are planty resale 4 rm HDB flats that are sold <450k.. In fact, some are bigger than BTO flat. r/sg then say that it is unsurprising given the decaying lease. But that's not the point, the point is that 1 million resale flats remains the a small percentage relative to the entire resale flat market.
There are arguments against using this gini index because singapore doesn't count capital gains as income, but i think that only affects the tail end of the demographic
There are arguments against using this gini index because singapore doesn't count capital gains as income, but i think that only affects the tail end of the demographic since most peoples gains on capital assets are minimal compared to their wage income.
These guys are just a bunch of assholes
They are really testing our patience and intelligence. The issue is resale prices, not BTO. Have resale prices kept in tandem with income? Absolutely not unless you tell me income increased more than 20% over 2 years. What an absolute joke, cherry picking technically correct but meaningless statistics to pat themselves on the back.
They know we can google the facts right? now with chatgpt, lagi can get more detailed info.
They need some holes to spread their shit all over
They shld really come out with something targeting resale hdb.
They should reference the median income of young newly weds (to be), these are the majority of people looking for BTO.
They should try coming up with a more convincing lie..
This guy kong until he song.
This is almost as tone deaf as "Mr. Professional with two cars".
This is easily one of the worst Labour Day speeches in decades. I suspect Lawrence doesn't want to be the next PM.
this is KEY . note the Sleight of Hand there. Median Household income now where both parents and maybe one adult child is working VS in the 1980s with one working father and housewife mom
This is Lawrence Wong, you guys didn't realize his pattern from the covid days?
This is only BTO prices, not resale and for the median income earning family.
this is our future PM ??? SG in deep trouble
This is pretty on brand for the nonsense this fella has been gaslighting us with for months now
This, which we all know, is easily achievable by young single adults with two cats earning 10k a month, or young married couples open to practicing polygamy.
This. If adjusted by the fact two adults are working then his argument falls apart.
TLDR; families have to work twice as hard now as compared to the 1980s to afford a new flat.
To add on to potatotoe, not every traditional COUPLE themselves can buy as well due to the sheer limited supply. There will always be a percentage of population who will be unable to win the BTO lottery despite trying multiple times (7-10 times) or they have tried several times (less than 7) and are unable to wait, understandably, before having to look at resale.
To add on, people are getting married and/or moving out from their family home later, therefore contributing to higher household income in general (iirc it was noted in a LKYSPP or IPSOS study)
To add on, the high cost of getting resale and the long wait time for a BTO flat is probably making people get married and move out from their family home later.
To him of course is affordable. Also, to everybody if your son and grand son continue paying. By the time finish paying the mortgage, the 99 years lease finish already.
Tone deaf politicians who just lie straight to our faces rather than seeking to understand our struggles. I know who I am NOT voting for in our next election. Fuckers.
Too late for him to apply for another job - gee he's in for a tough time ahead.
Top tier pasta
Typical BS tactics from these people
Unfortunately they need a loyal dog so if too smart and good might threaten their rule, so getting a dog that ain’t too smart/good fits well for them.
Unsurprisingly, the guy highlights that it's NON MATURE, INCONVENIENT LOCATION as if everyone can live in mature, good location, next to MRT and mall, 15 minutes to CBD.
Use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement and Privacy Policy. © 2024 reddit inc. All rights reserved.
Very insidious. Even if its 25% in 1980 and now, in 1980 there were lesser wives working, so its not a level comparison. One sentence say household income, next sentence say incomes. Devious.
Wait ah. Hahaha. Ok I laugh liao.
Want your own place with a shorter wait time? Be able to afford it or don't complain.
We will brow beat that it is affordable, do not trust your eyes
We’re screwed.
Well does he not have a choice to be different?
What do you think his stand would be
What happens when the passengers are unsatisfied with the driver?!
What I question are the following: 1. How many households were there in SG in 1980 compared to the present? I suspect it's a lot more now. So we do also have a lot more households, in absolute terms, that are by definition earning less than 9k. 2. What was the income and social inequality in 1980 compared to the present? Again, I think it's more unequal. I doubt we had a lot of expats or ultra high net-worth residents in 1980. I also doubt we had a lot of single-member elderly households in 1980.
What proportion of home seekers got their BTO? You can make BTO HDBs $1 but that's still totally meaningless if you only release a few flats and a significant number of families are still forced to pay for rapidly approaching $1m resale HDBs.
What sort of public housing system indexes its affordability to the 50th percentile of households that declare an income? Where are the bottom 50% going to live? In a tent?
What the fuck Lawrence ?
What was that? Lies, damned lies, and statistics?
What we're seeing here is the evolution of the 4G leadership into a steady and sustained decline for historians to record.
What's even the reason behind the question?
what's the difference? 🤣
When everyone can see the forest burning
When we look at the median income per person, its around 3k, because the household size is at 3.27 (currently) thus to get the income of 9k, they are assuming that we will have 3 person working and contributing at least 3k.
Which universe LW is in?
Who incomes is risen, us or theirs?
Whose income?
Whose income? Minister’s income? Or our newly added millionaire PR’s income? Ladies and gentlemen presenting to you our next pm who is so out of touch
Whose income? My income certainly hasn't..
why do you think he cherry picked 1980? because 1990 obviously does not work
Why is the comparison with the 1980s?
Wtf is this guy talking about? What kind of crack is he on, because I want some?
Ya la dual income today what. Try single income and surviving. Double the effort just to sustain today
Ya lor, this kind of statement kasi darah naik sial
yeaaahhh...
Yeah I think the average age of married couple should be above 30 to get that pay and apply bto. Still need money for food, utilities, town council fees, transport. Out of pocket amount up a lot too
Years.
Yes that's exactly why. Households are working doubly harder and still not keeping up with inflation.
Yes yes, continue to sell this and you might see yourself out of the next election.
Yes, household income rise because lack of availability/expensive in public housing for citizens to move out.
you are a graduate
you are married (first time) (under 40)
you are willing to move into less developed (or completely empty!) towns
you better just amend your numbers since the MR salary is 1.1 not 11. This means ministerial salary is actually increase half as much
you can compete with up to 9 other applicants for the same place
you can wait 6 years for the house
You know what else would be funny? You stand up as PM for the first time and your party's voting results immediately nosedive. Even better if it dives out of majority.
you mean the median income that includes people like Piyush Gupta & his 200m income? oh then that $9000 figure seems low.
🤡 🤡 🤡
我们帮你 pitch that tent
