 afford older resale flat or not?
 confirm, was the closet.
 course it will be difficult and expensive
 course ppl would want good locations etc though. I  my b first try in central mature estate and we don't intend  sell after M. Cos few other places would be able  comp in convenience and if they do, they wouldn't be affordable. I wouldn't think  applying for non mature / inconvenient locations because  live inconveniently for the rest  my life is not an tion as far as I  help it. I also wouldn't just whack inconvenient location b for the sake  ting.
 Develing Citizen
 Mature Citizen
 pregnant.
 Senior Citizen
 the results for the amk b out? If I didn't receive any emails does it mean I'm in same position as ?
 u sh what were the 9 projects that you applied for?
 you me? Hahahaha I just want a house man I’m gonna stay there forever ok HDB pls I’m not gonna sell it
 your Valuable Pie when you  my friend
(I was decidedly not a Beacon  Knowledge Blazing Out Across a Black Sea  Ignorance.
(Wonder what happened  the ghosts  Bishan...
(Wonder what happened  the ghosts  Bishan...
** my 9 tries, 8  them were B and 1 was SBF
*day's was an outright failure i.e. they did not even assign me a number. In the past, I've ten numbers but they were waaay out  supply, so the numbers were never called.
1st timer under finance scheme was for B BB 5rm and q# was almost 2x  available units...
4 years building time hahahahaha....my friend ok 8 years building time ( cause  the lockdown, they said...
4rm Bishan Ridges (SBF
4rm Bishan Ridges, 5.1
4rm Dakota Crest, 20.5
4rm h Guan Grove, 12.4
4rm McNair Heights, 5.4
4rm Telok Blangah Beacon, 30.6
5rm Central Weave @ AMK, 8.2
5rm Kebun Baru Edge where the 1st-timer application rate was 10.6
5rm Lakeside View, 9.1
9 times and all central regions.
9 times and still no luck. And they wonder why we  not exceeding the p replacement mark.
99 year lease for $500k+, have  stay outskirts, skt high COE prices, private hire costs, not enough business hubs  spread out working location and public transport  1 hour  CBD. Which other country will treat you like this?
A few friends I know by the time reach this stage already  comfortably afford a EC
Agree, judging  the all the white liquid all over the closet
Ah yes, pls sh if you ever able  successfully convince them.
All these applications either failed   a ballot number, or  a ballot number that was never eventually called.
Also go and talk  your MP in your a. It helps you know. They  do things. (Especially helps if you go talk  them while pregnant, or with a pregnant partner haha
AMK Weave 5 room pricing: 5-room: $720,000 - $877,000
an established neighbourhood wn and amenities usually is there
AND  DOG PARK SIA
And then there  pele who  a b and first thing was  fatasize about how much they  sell it after M.
and they wonder why singaporeans  not having kids
Any couple that  weather through the B srm will stick her  the end. Gahmen big brain moment
Anyway just  let you know, you're not alone. We o have seen many friends  their flat while we  rejected over and over again.
As someone who has failed  apply for B for a year+ (which includes proximity and even going  the MP for pity help lol
At least master duel gives you ur guaranteed if you didn't have any in your last pack...
At least you disclosed all your locations  avoid stirring o much, I'm self aw enough not  bitch about not striking 
At the same time, publish out the formula on how this is calculated so that the entire process  remain as transpnt as possible.
At this point, what's the difference???
Aug 2022: 5rm Central Weave @ AMK, 8.2
AwesomePiah
B is just luck. U  lucky.
BabaDuda
Bang table. Write  MP
Based on the percentages awarded, there was a 30% chance you'd end up in the situation that you  now.
Bedok lah
Belong  Jurong then bid for tengah lol. All my relatives who bidded  it. Who ask you bid for mature estates.
Bishan
blubblubsong
Book3pper
But anyway IMO, a lot  facrs go in choosing a location for a flat (assuming its not  flip
but if you just want a nice prime location then by all means keep doing what you're doing. just don't complain with the next "I failed 100 times   a B"
but if you're treating it as a bit  a lottery, as you  entitled  do, you really 't paint the situation as being about NOT being able  land a house. unless you think that me not being able  win the  is also similarly lamentable.
But then he not complain on reddit and blame the government for his failures. It’s nice  be able  blame the government when your gf dumps you
But you  rent! *checks rental prices, ok fuck this
But you hiam right?
Butt butt pele keep saying no space next time and sure regret??
Buy resale u  eligible for grants
cerealnsushi
chartarp
Cheaper than buying resale, for sure.
ChickenChRice
ChinkInMyArmor
Chlamydia19
Choice_Tadpole_854
clusterfuvk
Comicksands
ComprehensiveLeg9523
compromised and convinced  b (tried twice in tal
ConsiderComplement
context: just failed the 4rm AMK this round o
crusainte
Cutestuff_
cynicgal
damiepedretti
Damnnn
day I failed*   a B** flat for the 9th time in a row
day I failed*   a B** flat for the 9th time in a row : r/singapore
deadlyclavv
deadlyclavv
decawrite
default
defeated by octagon in $1 coin
DegreePitiful3496
DegreePitiful3496
Did this for my first 6 ballots. Tried non mature and  it on my 2nd try. Sp making it emotional
Did you only apply for mature estates?
Did you reject any fers before? Reject twice and you lose your first timer priority for god knows how long.
Did you try the jurong or tengah as?
Difference is he probably gonna receive his house instead  still no house now
Distinct-Armadillo61
Diu leh, you ballot all the highly contested locations coupling that with highly contested flat size. You deserve 0 pity tbh. Go cry at your naughty corner there.
djmatt85
Does anyone know what  the chances  me securing a flat if my queue number is 727 out  398 units? I’m literally willing  pick any unit at any floor just so I  stay near my pnts since I’m their only primary cgiver for now and in the future as well.
Doesn't work this way.
Don’t anyhow stir shit when you obviously want  flip your mature flat after M leh. If you really want   a B  stay then bid some Punggol or Tengah lah, say until HDB trying  sp you  having a flat liddat.
don't need  wait for it  be build.
Don't need luck. I know so many pele who  first and 2nd time there. Welcome  the new punggol and land  central A/C.
don't worry. there  many like you
duckiemama
duckiemama
DuhMightyBeanz
During the weeks where I had my Bishan ballot number pending, I kept fantasizing about waking up and walking 300m  eat the duck rice at Kim San Leng cfeesh. My girlfriend was sick  me trying  describe how shiok their chili was.
During this involuntary morarium on the commencement  married life, I am using my time fruitfully.
dwhl930
Echos89
Edit: AND the Million Fishball stall ALSO moved there along with the duck rice sia. Jurong was ROBBED.
Edit: ’s 9 times. 7  them  in mature as. If you apply non-mature, that would not happen as your odds  ting a non-mature flat increases with every failed attempt.
EducarWild6329
Eh apply more non mature estate la
ellean4
elpipita20
emoji:develingCitizen:
emoji:matureCitizen:
emoji:seniorCitizen:
emorcen
emorcen
emorcen
enkei_8493
Even the  seems  understand that he's ting this result due  his choice in applying for all the hot as, but no; you're just glad  have your chance  keep repeating your point 
Every Tuesday, I meet my girlfriend for dinner and convince her how horosces n't a thing, dude.
Exclat
faeriedust87
Failing B feels extremely frustrating, but you'll have  manage your expectations lol.
fakeprileseth
fanaticd
Fast deal plz, i  pay 20% in cash and 20% in mesos on Bootes server.
Feb 2022: 4rm Dakota Crest, 20.5
Feeling_Age_772
feizhai
Finally  a nice 3-digit q# on 10th attempt cus  pnthood and married child priority schemes sia... 5 years  heart aches
FireNork
First timer+living near pnts proximity chances all have
For easy reference, here  my applications:
For every single one  my applications, I ok an arguably long shot.
For mature or non mature estates?
FreakyGangBanga
frozen1ced
frozen1ced
frozen1ced
Fucking Pulist
Fucking Pulist
Fucking Pulist
fyeslyna
fyeslyna
gary25566
Geesh. I thought I had it bad. I  my B on my 9th attempt.
giecomo1
give and take a little
Give and take. Looking at the projects you've applied, they  among the most pular ones in their respective unit size and launches so obviously it'll be very difficult   a number for them, yet you still went for them.
Give non mature estates a try, they'll all mature in time.
Goenitz33
Goenitz33
Goenitz33
Gong xi Gong Xi, time  buy resale flat.
Goodluck!
Govt should release annual housing accessibility stats so we know how fast someone secures a flat  time  application  actual allocation and then time  occupation.
Great_Metal_8800
Grow a spine and make yourselves useful :
Guaranteed 100% chance  your B the next try.
Guranteed SSR high floor unit at 5th pull.
h Guan and Lakeside  non-matured IIRC
h Guan Road 5 room flat advertised prices: 600-700k; actual transactions 600-700k.  applied for 4 room flat in h Guan B; said it’s close  pnts so he would have a proximity grant if he bought resale.
ha! i only ok 7! T.T better late than never though
Haha I gave up after trying only for 4 times and ended up with a resale.
HDB is seizing AMK land, HDB already seized Tanglin halt but the fact is, you 't  rid  everyone quickly. It takes time you numbnuts. No wonder you n't in charge  policy planning.
HDB needs  implement pity pull
HDB provides additional chances if you  unsuccessful repeatedly at ting non-mature flats. But  kept on applying for mature flats.
HDB SHOULD REFUND $10x10 FOR EVERY 10 FAILED BALLOTS.
HDB Staircase... Oh wait need  build first
Head_Calligrapher670
hey , it seems like you're trying mostly for mature estate.
hey , mayb u should pick less pular projects. i also failed like 5 times before i settle for a less pular tho matured estate sbf. good thing i  it if not have  spend more on rents.
Hey that's exactly the amount  times i tried before i went for resale haha. On our last try we actually went  my MP  ask her  help. She ld me if i wanted a 3 room in a non-mature estate she'd be able   me one. Ultimately she wrote  HDB a generic letter and we  a generic reply after the rejection... and we were like, ok whatever,  a resale instead.
Hi bruh, fellow AMK B applit,  number 1110  buy 4D. Let's continue grinding her, no homo.
Hi , understand your frustrations  B-ing. You should considering B projects that has a high unit count. Usually pele do not take in account the number  units while balloting for a project. Let's say there's 600 4-room flats in project A as compd  another 200 4-room flats in project B, if you  a queue number  400, you  pick a unit in project A but 't pick a unit in project B already. I  see  your applications, probably only Bishan Ridges has a lot  units. All the best for your next application. Jiayou!
Hi, we in the same boat. Just came  shed a tear with you.
Holy crap. Not sure  your stars perfectly misaligned or there's some systemic issues.
Honestly, who wouldn't try? Pele will naturally act according  incentives shaped by policy. Everyone wants  try for the best possible outcome.
houganger
Housing is emotional.
Housing supply and policies  so poorly designed that HDB is a lottery while private prerty ownership is consolidated amongst the rich/foreigners.
How about try non mature B?
how come the B application is only wards mature estate or 4/5 room flats? Have you tried non-mature estate or smaller flats?
How much  hit pity btw ? 😎
Humptydumpty179
Humptydumpty179
hurriechan
I  comfortably afford the super old resale flats that have their oldness priced in.
I  see u  applying for the premium as aka mature estate. Now u see the problem?
I  uncomfortably afford some recently Med flats.
I actually think you have a sliiiiiiiiiim chance. Fingers crossed for you.
I am a single 32 year old Singapore Citizen working as a retail assistant. I simply do not foresee moving out  my pnts' home, ever. If one married couple could fail in B for nine times, it will only  more difficult for a single person. I do not have the tion  living out  a car because I also simply 't, period.
I am so confused
I applied 3 times and gave up. Managed  find a resale flat and would be collecting keys in January next year
I ate it every week as a child, back when it was in Jurong East. #belong2jurong
I caved in and bought a resale after failing 3 times in a row trying   a B
I did 12 times then  Bishan. I  Dakota before but when it's my queue number left only 2nd and 3rd floor, passed.
I did the same thing back in the day and ended up with resale. Failed 11-12x so you  do a couple more pulls if you feel shiok.
I feel like repeat applits with multiple failures should  increasingly higher priorities as the rate  failure increases, with a calculated cap at <insert number here>  either  a 100% chance  selecting a flat (at the HDB's choice  B
I feel u bro four times non mature estate but still rejected
I feel you . I applied 12 times before I  a chance  pick a flat. That ok 3 years  applying. Then 5 years waiting time for the B  be built. Oh and due  Covid there was an additional 1 year delay. So 9 years  buy a 2 room flat.
I feel you: we failed our 10th time day.
I gave up and buy resale after numerous failures.
I give myself a pity pull on nights where my girlfriend is "not quite feeling it".
I have a colleague who finally  a good queue number on her 9th try. Maybe you'll be 10th time lucky.
I know I am an outlier so please don't down vote me but just  sh my experience. I  a good number for a mature estate at a Payoh at my very first application. This was my very first B / SBF application in my life. Which in this case happens  be SBF. I think the thing that makes the difference is my age. I was 53 when I applied.
I m buying for my grandotter brithday.
I prefer resale / bf wants b because he said that we we should be prudent
I remember when I was growing up Bishan was the crap location. My pnts used  tell me sries about the a being a graveyard and pele didn't want  move there. There were lots  ghost sries around there o, remember True Singapore Ghost sries?
I said it before and will say it again, there  many future portunity costs associated with buying a poor location. Growing up in one, saying its shit is an understatement and at the same time painfully frustrating. The straightforward solution  allow the same quality  life for all is a massive overhaul  our urban design.
I said so in another comment but  is so clearly gunning for that B lottery lol.
I student,  discount?
I think maybe you need  choose less pular tions. I  a good queue number for a 3 room flat where the application rate was about 3  1. there’s no point complaining since that’s the shitty system it is and we ’t do anything about it.
I thought theres some 1st timers priority schemes?
I tried 6 times with 4 mature estates, 1 sbf, and 1 non mature estate after i  desperate. Nothing. ok the leap for resale last year and happily married. Tbh, resale aint that bad and you still   a signifit amount  the grants (75k for me and my wife, proximity, income, resale
i try 8 times and give up. went  buy resale. move in months time
I understand your predicament.
I was given a queue number but end up I'm not able  select any unit
I wish all the best in your upcoming applications.
If die die want central, then  resale.
If neither  you has served NS, then losers weepers. Boo hoo.
If we  thinking  the same user, the guy is a civil servant.
If you  a citizen couple, I feel for you.
If you  referring  Fate/Grand Order, actually they already have implemented that in JP servers. ENG server need  wait till Jan 2024.
If you  so determined  live in those as only (and not Tengah or wherever
If you don't have early marriages and B ASAP, you'll take years before you  a house.
if you REALLY want a house, try applying  a non-mature estate. I guarantee you that you'll  it within the first three tries (has  be done consecutively
If you really want it. Then go volunteer at the GRC as GRL for 1 year and they will let you apply as grassroots volunteer provided you meet their criteria. At the same time you must set up the RC at the new estate. How about that?
if you rush  move in, you don’t need  endure 1 year  Reno dust  other houses.
If you still insist  try   the b lottery, then you not complain what.
If you think you really need a central location then  a resale....
If you want a fresh b then apply non matured.
If you're married and expecting a child soon, write in  your MP.
IIRC the extra chance is only for non matured estates.  is balloting mostly for matured estates like me. Still no luck myself o.
ikhansubstantiate
ikhansubstantiate
I'll be the Paleonlogist and you'll be braless in the earlier seasons.
ilovenoodles06
ilovezam
I'm OK with M going up  10 years tbh. If you pay so much for a prerty, it shouldn't be something you're looking  flip the moment time is up.
Imhereforever
Immediate front  line for B and SBF. 👏
In 2020 finally  a number for dakota cres, number was not good but just lucky   higher than 5th floor we just take
In 2022, I  bored  writing these little sries.
In all fairness 5 out  6 locations in the last round  B were heavily oversubscribed.  went for AMK but subscription rate for woodlands and tampines were actually higher. Also, oversub rate has been insane for quite a few rounds now. That's why PAP MPs themselves  raising the question  public housing accessibility in parliament. But MBT version 2.0 isn't doing anything.
In all fairness, most  ur tries were in very high demand mature estates. You didnt try the outlier further out estates. Its like me complaining i never tio 4D lol.
In Aug 2021, my cousin came clean and confessed that there wasn't a Mew under that truck.
In August 2020, I finally hit 6000 MMR in Dota 2 and thus was convinced that I was now worthy  asking my girlfriend  marry me.
In contrast, so many here telling the   go apply for non-mature estate, with many assumptions. I don't see affordability/time being the issue here, just a matter  supply.
In Feb 2021, I had put on a fair bit  weight  the festive period. I hed that my increased mass would exert some form  gravitational pull on a decent ballot number.
In May 2021, I was ld I wasn't very bright. I began my search for a source  luminescence.
In Nov 2020, my order  fries at Burger King came with 1 swaway onion ring. It was extra crispy and I felt favoured by the fates.
In Nov 2021, I ingested a McSpicy but didn't not suffer the usual colonic consequences. I felt more powerful than ever before.
In the end our number was like 500 out  323 units fered
ineffablebitch
Infortheline
Inspirited
Instead  posting here, why not post at Desmond or Lawrence’s fb page directly?
InterTree391
Iridiumstuffs
is  the new noobhdbbuyer? LOL im just kidding  course
It doesn’t matter if it’s matured or not, Bs balloting success should skew in first-timer’s favour.
It was just really hard  fall in love with a place, then wrench yourself away and pick something you don't feel anything for just because it has better odds.
It’s not about affordability. If you  afford a B at AMK Weave, you  afford a resale flat at h Guan (where  actually did want  stay
It’s not unwise  choose a good location actually. Saves you a n  money and time in the long run.
Its ok you  have my house for $999,999.99 SGD
It's so ironic you insinuate IBs replying, but your comment hisry has been way more consistently anti-government using any excuses  spew your rheric.
itsmeyoursmallpenis
ITT : Someone who applies solely for the lottery effect complaining  not winning his lottery
IvanThePohBear
IvanThePohBear
IvanThePohBear
Jammy_butns2
Jeewolf
jh8223
jmzyn
jotunck
jupiter1_
jupiter1_
jupiter1_
justln
kazuasaurus
Keep trying!
kewdizzles
knee north domineering zealous repeat bells deserve sharp lavish fend -- mass edited with redact.dev
kisiutaidaily
kuang89
Lagna85
LeeKyuHyung
Let me guess. Ulu pandan in Nov? Good luck.
Let's just all shack up her in a rent-controlled New York city apartment.
Life is ugh
livebeta
Lmaooooo
logicnreason93
logicnreason93
Lol I'm in the same boat, applied ten times and I've seen numbers twice but most  my application rates were  3.5  5.0x for first timer.
Lol that one guy running up and down the thread telling   apply for non-mature estate just  prove a point.
Lol yes it is a lottery indeed.
LookAtItGo123
Lots  pele with priority schemes. Those don't have always need queue behind
Lucky i bbfa dont have such a problem
M_SG
MadeByHideorHideo
malaysianlah
Man that's ugh for you
Many pele have ld you mature estates lack land and HDB  already seizing land  mature estates. I am sick  you spouting this rubbish just because you 't live in mature estate.
marcuschookt
Markeur
Mate...that's Yu Kee Duck Rice. There  a million branches everywhere.
May 2022: 5rm Lakeside View, 9.1 (MCPS was used. #jurong4lyfe
Maybe  married and  baby first. I  B on first try when I'm married with 1 baby. My employee  married o but no kids yet. She had failed 5 times.
Maybe  one shot one kill
Maybe the queue numbers  be tweaked like, if u willing  M 6 years instead  5, u  higher priority. The longer u willing  wait for M, the better the number
Maybe you haven't throw enough money at them /s
McNair Heights was ted as “Due  its superb and mature location, you  expect a healthy potential price appreciation when you  ready  sell your flat.” Dakota Crest: “Expect a healthy price appreciation if you manage  snag a flat here”. I suspect the rest  ’s applications will have that theme.
Me and my bf have also been applying for Bs without much success. I think for the 5th or 6 application, we applied for a SBF and  it.
Me no math well, but I believe it's not probabilistically asunding that those odds beat me 9 times in a row.
Mental-Machine8899
Met my bf at 33 years old
Mindless-Sherbert-18
minisoo
MolassesBulky
Moral? Don't try unless  priority, or just be very very very very very very lucky
most  the time, resale should hold the price you bought it for, just don’t buy a value trap where next time you not sell because your future buyers not take a mortgage  buy your old flat.
Most  your Bs  in mature estates and  the commonly sought after 4 room. Why don’t you try non-mature estates also? Maybe will have higher chances?
Most locations prime location.
MrAiko-
mreonreddit
mSCNirvana
m-slacker
My birthsne is rock botm.
My crazy idea: HDB should introduce a policy where if you  pregnant when you apply, you shoot up  the p  the queue. Boom. Solves problem  pele delaying starting families coz 't  flat and govt wanting more babies.
My first time trying
My friend also like that. In the  tired and buy resale. Fucking lot  difference in price.
My girlfriend does a good "how you doin?"
My husband and I always joke about Hougang because we  lots  perks since it’s classified as non-mature but in all honesty it feels pretty mature haha! We chose this a just  be near pnts, no plans  sell even though we M a few years ago.
My MMR has sunk back in the 5ks.
My mom cried when we didn't  Lakeside View. We thought non-mature + MCPS would've done the trick.
My PR friend tried sobf ONE time and ten clementi 5rm high floor good facing near mrt.
Mynxs
NadiyahNatasha
Neptune not Uranus
Neptunera
Never use priority scheme, not even the 4km near one?
Newez
Next 8 times (still 1st timer
ngzhimen
Nice data. Good  know you  now looking for 5rm as well. Eventually after 5 more failures you might have saved up enough money for landed
Nice.
No M, 100% chance haha
No wonder pele just say fuck it and buy resale HDB. Wtf is those rates? Lottery ?
No_Pension9902
NoMoreFatPhos
Non mature estates  chock full  amneties conducive for young families.
Noobcakes19
Ne. Never been called  select a unit before, never had a chance  decline  select a unit before.
Not an expert but seems like most  the projects you applied for  in mature estates. Pretty shit  be living in bad locations but beats not having a house right
Not bad u still had a chance  B. Some  us will never have the chance due  income or marriage status 🤣😅😂👌
Not sure if applicable for you but you may consider it
Nov 2022 B I probably going for Tengah. Wish me duck!
nova9001
Now average 5-6 years I believe
Oh dear.. We dont understand why. We will monir the situation further  solve the issue
Oh it only happens  few unlucky ones? I guess let’s keep the way it is
Omfg never change, Reddit.
On behalf  HDB, thank you for your $90 contribution! /s
One  the other things that caught my eye was the Feb 2021 Kallang Whampoa application for MacNair Heights. The next time Kallang Whampoa was fered, it was a Feb 2022 PLH site - King George Heights, even closer  the city and train.  went for a non-PLH site instead - Dakota.
 don’t give up
inion / Fluff Post
Our first timer application rates were:
Our local standup scene needs you, made me laugh a few times reading this thread already!
Own self check own self ✅
Own self check own self ✅
Own self check own self ✅
parkson89
Participated in 14 times B/SBF exercises (mixture  mature and non-matured
PathDefeat
PathDefeat
Perhaps it's time  call it quits and seek a new home elsewhere.
Petition  conspire against   prolong his housing woes, because comedy stems  pain
pewsg
Pick liao, better than nothing
politicsRgay
priced out
Prile Badge for the Achievement p 1% Poster p 1% Poster
Prile Badge for the Achievement p 5% Poster p 5% Poster
Prile Badge for the Achievement p 5% Poster p 5% Poster
Prile Badge for the Achievement p 5% Poster p 5% Poster
Prile Badge for the Achievement p 5% Poster p 5% Poster
Prile Badge for the Achievement p 5% Poster p 5% Poster
priority is  live her rather than wait.
prn_melanin
proyb2
racroles
raidorz
raises hand for me, 10 times the charm lol...
Raytrace
RBRgd
reddithorrid
Regolith_Prospekr
Remember  make the right decision during the next general election! 😃
Resale might lose a bit  tangible value, but the intangible pros I find far outweigh the cons.
ResidentSleeper
risingsuncoc
rmp20002000
rmp20002000
RohingyaWarrior
runesplease
sad that we're all part  this system
Same bro/sis :( also failed and also didn’t  a queue number.
Same route as a fren  mine who went volunteering. They even have a separate list  units set aside just for this category  ppl 😂
seriously, this is not an en market when you play with the lives  citizens trying  start a family
Serious-Newspaper-48
sgashua
ShadeX8
shadowfloats
shadowlago95
sharing my personal experience - met with VB thrice, with 3 personal written letters with his fancy fountain pen and cursive writing  me no where. Long sry short - ld me no rush for a house, just make baby and stay w pnts lol
silentsce90210
SinclairAGS
singledesperateugly
singledesperateugly
sitsthewind
sitsthewind
Small space. Small dick. Small girl. Small baby
So blame who? Pap la
So we t we cfm  a number, no matter how shitty the number may be
SoggyBits
Soitsgonnabeforever
Some pele want B lottery but dont d  outright say, o politically incorrect. then act jin cham, why is he unable  exercise his right after marriage.
sometimes you ta try something different if you really want a b/sbf. like you i tried for 4/5rm 8 times and didn’t  it. finally decided  give it one last shot before i couldn’t even b/sbf anymore and tried for a 3rm in queenswn and  it.
Sorry , but when you throw six figures in your house, you should tally  a location you don’t want that’s inconvenient for you /s
Sorry , looking at the project you applied for each round, I find it hard  sympathize with you
South side rich kids
Speedz007
Sputniki
squ4rish
St_Yesterday_761
Starwind13
sterlingowl
Sti8man7
Still have  pay taxes  feed these useless civil serpents for making our lives difficult only for them  bite the hand that feeds them (tax payers
subzephyr
suicide_aunties
sukequ
sussy_bakagaijin
SzeWeeeeeeee
Tbh the pele who  saying "why not apply non-mature?". Those  ALSO oversubscribed af.
terrymoo
Thank you kind sir for the new piece  vocabulary you have blessed us with day
Thats what i did and manage   a place
The 4 room application rate for King George Heights that round was 10.9. Dakota was 20.5. If  went for the other non-mature flats eg Yishun/Tengah, he almost certainly would have ten a flat. Especially after posting #belong2jurong lol
the as you went for  all great as that  literally those ‘take key and know i’ve made money’ locations.
The dark side  B is a pathway  many abilities some consider  be unnatural
The difference is that mature estates  overly subscribed by a huge margin as posed  non-mature and you  extra dices  row for subsequent failed attempts.
The difference is that you  accumulated chances with every failure in non mature estates. Enough  a point you’d  an almost guaranteed queue number with enough failures.
the disappointment is real
'The entire system is working against young couples and the government is wondering why the TFR is low.'
The Jurong Lake Gardens playgrounds  glorious and I wanted my 5 sons (Kayden, Jayden, Brayden, Hayden and Muriel
The only thing you have ever highlighted is "MUH WN" for your portunity costs.
The same few users (with a certain type  comment hisry
the scheme needs  help ppl  flats easier else it will not help birth rates
TheAlphaLion_com
Then see all the trashy civil serpents scolding  for wanting  stay in a convenient mature estate is even more rage inducing.
ThePornCoin
ThePornCoin
There  so many private prerties in Singapore that one would think there's unlimited land here.
There ain't no pity pull in Holy Grail Wars
Theres en booking that ened up earlier in the day where there  bishan Bs with decent 4rms for Chinese. But you’re o late now since they’re likely claimed.
thesinkieboi
thesuccessfulkoala
They really should have a fail-safe mechanism in place. Or maybe have a pseudo-random chance for balloting which increases for each failure.
They're the class monirs la.
They're the cutest boys in class and I'm shy.
Things different already, but Singapore be steady~
Think  me when you eat the duck rice braised peanuts.
This does not apply  mature estates.
This idiot would happily kick elderly out  their houses but will cry when it's time.
This is a whiny post but yet  say he's not whining
This is gold
Thought question: Would this indirectly contribute  abortion rates?
Threads like this makes me thankful that I  B when was very young.
Tiger_King_
till you see out divorce statistics ...
timblackwhite
Time  contact your MP and give him/her some work  do… I hear  some pele it works sometimes
Time for protest and call for ministers  quit istg. And im sure ure not even the only one who face this.
trenzterra
True_Jellyfish_1985
Try  aim for resale Liao, you still keep your two chances for subsidised housing (including EC
Try 3 room? 4 and 5 rooom  always over subscribed
Try again, I had tried for years and  it. Don’t give up.
Try tengah bah
Twrd4321
Twrd4321
U alr win all  us by having someone  B with
u deserve a better award but this is all I have! u r definitely going places, maybe not a hdb but places for sure
U find one B that has an application ratio  1:1 or less. See if u  find lor.
Uhm I think that’s already in the works haha, I know couples who use that. Or already have a child.
UmiMakiEli
UNAlrTaken
Unfortunate. My first SBF for tamp failed, tried R for fun and  number 30.
Unless you applied for mature estates. Or the project in Ang Mo Kio.
Unpular inion and gonna  downvoted in oblivion but since everyone else who wants a B would prefer the same desirable location what do you expect HDB  do  be able  build a n  new flats in queenswn / bishan / amk  satisfy all the demand?
ururism
Used for Lakeside View and h Guan Grove. #jurongcoolong
usukmordanidoo
Utter rubbish.
VioletCalico
Was thinking if should go for Dawson or somewhere that is finished building. Managed   high floor 3 rm with nice neighbors.
watermelonchild801
We applied 4rm McNair Heights. Rate: 5.4.
We applied 4rm Telok Blangah Beacon. Rate: 30.6
We applied 7-8 times over a few years with the occasional mature estate here and there
We applied for 4rm at Bishan Ridges. Rate was 5.1.
We applied for 4rm h Guan Grove. Rate: 12.4. (MCPS was used. #juronglyfe4eva
We applied for 5rm Kebun Baru Edge in AMK. The 1st-timer application rate was 10.6.
We applied for Bishan Ridges again, under the SBF scheme. Rate: 8.6.
We applied for non-mature, only about 2x subscribed
West side best side
West side best side
What do you expect? You're competing with thousand  flippers who  taring mature estates. 🤦
What’s new. I’m so sick  hdb already
whatsnewdan
when demand  29k flats a year is outstripped by supply  25k+
When it comes  dual prerty pics, pele here will say hate the system dont hate the player
When u r deciding whether  have baby or not, ok.....not being able   hdb just helps u  make a decision
Where did you apply? That should not happen for non-mature estates.
Where did you stay with the baby while your B was being built? Not everyone is as lucky  be able  stay with pnts or have enough money  pay for renting other units.
Which 9 projects did you apply for?
which puts our cumulative probability  at least 1 successful B at 91.15%, and this hasn't even included the roughly 15% leeway you  with each B (due  pele who reject their chances
WittyKap0
wizardzen
Wonder what happened  the ghosts  Bishan...
Would it work better(or even possible at all
Would you consider 3 Room? They  less pular and hence your chance increases.  always sell and upgrade after M.
Wow 5040 years is a very long wait
Wtf man HDB
xfrezingicex
xinderw
Ya like legit. Why not? How many pele would actually d 
Yeah as someone who lives a bus ride away  Admiralty I  only say it's not fun  commute 3 hours daily most  your life lmao
yes somehow the hardest part is coming  terms that all your fantasies  living in that plot  land have been shattered in just an instant and now you ta live the rest  ur life walking past that plot knowing u could never live there :’
Yesterday's en Booking was a disaster o. Did you apply matured as? I  lucky on the 7th try (After 2 failed SBF + 2 failed B + 2 failed en Booking
Yew Kee Duck Rice has lotsa outlets, their sister brand that goes by the same name at Empress Market has even better chili than the franchise :D
Yo, staircases  good for making babies, not raising them.
You  not alone, 14th time still didn’t  a number
You  not wrong  a pure stats point  view, but there’s definitely a human facr  consider.
You  not wrong but it still ok me 5 tries  finally  a unit in berra in 2020 with pnts proximity scheme. All 5 tries  within woodlands, Sembawang and berra.
You  what you deserve I guess. - the government.
You applied for pular projects in mature estates. My friend also did the same, failed 8 times for pular Bs and end up with resale in the end. You could try applying for non-mature estate instead.
You apply mature or non-mature estate?
You have now been monired by the monir lizard.
You keep gunning for high demand mature estates
You keep on harping about it when you have ZERO evidence  back it up.
You need  bath flower water and go  Thailand find Ahjahn  turn your luck around
You only need a small space  make baby work...
You technically  an extra chance upon failure. It does reset if you  it and you give up your selection though. But it is just one extra ballot which probably dosent increase your chances by alot considering others  also at some level  pity pull
You want  run in the wall, not govt fault you hurt yourself?
Your choices  all over the place. No real rationale like wanting  live near patents
You're right, and perhaps I should have been wiser.
Zhi19
🥵some minister didn't tell us os
